when these things were done the leaders
came to me the people of Israel and the
priests and the Levites have not
separated themselves from the peoples of
the lands with respect to the
abominations of the Canaanites the
Hittites the parasites the Jebusites the
ammonites the Moabites the Egyptians and
the amorite s-- for they have taken some
of their daughters as wives for
themselves and their sons so that the
holy seed is mixed with the peoples of
those lands
indeed the hand of the leaders and
rulers has been foremost in this
trespass so when I heard this thing I
tore my garment on my robe and plucked
out some of the hair of my head and
beard and sat down astonished
then everyone who trembled at the words
of the God of Israel assembled to me
because of the transgression of those
who had been carried away captive and I
sat astonished until the evening
sacrifice at the evening sacrifice I
arose from my fasting and having torn my
garment and my robe I fell on my knees
and spread out my hands to the Lord my
God and I said oh my god I am too
ashamed and humiliated to lift up my
face to you my god
for our iniquities have risen higher
than our heads and our guilt has grown
up to the heavens since the days of our
fathers to this day we have been very
guilty
and for our iniquities we our kings and
our priests have been delivered into the
hand of the kings of the lands to the
sword to captivity to plunder and to
humiliation as it is this day and now
for a little while
Grace has been shown from the Lord our
God to leave us a remnant to escape and
to give us a peg in his holy place that
our God may enlighten our eyes and give
us a measure of revival in our bondage
for we were slaves yet our God did not
forsake us in our bondage but he
extended mercy to us in the sight of the
kings of Persia to revive us to repair
the house of our God to rebuild its
ruins and to give us a wall and Judah
and Jerusalem and now O God what shall
we say after this for we have forsaken
your Commandments which you commanded by
your servants the prophets saying the
land which you are entering to possess
is an unclean land with the uncleanness
of the peoples of the lands with their
abominations which have filled it from
one end to another with their impurity
therefore do not give your daughters as
wives for their sons nor take their
daughters to your sons and never seek
their peace or prosperity that you may
be strong and eat the good of the land
and leave it as an inheritance to your
children forever and after all that has
come upon us for our evil deeds and for
our great guilt since you are God have
punished us less than our iniquities
deserve and have given us such
deliverance as this should we again
break your Commandments and join in
marriage with the people committing
these abominations would you not be
angry with us until you had consumed us
so that there would be no remnant or
survivor
Oh Lord God of Israel you are righteous
for we are left as a remnant as it is
this day here we are before you in our
guilt though no one can stand before you
because of this
[Music]